docs/deployments.md, before:

# Deployment Guide

- [Table of Contents](readme.md)
  - Deployment Guide
    * [Overview](#overview)
    * [Bootstrap](#bootstrap)
    * [Deployment Parameters](#deployment-parameters)
    * [Diagnostics](#diagnostics)
    * [Test Suite](#test-suite)
    * [One-arm Scenario](#one-arm-scenario)
    * [Two-arm Scenario](#two-arm-scenario)
    * [Three-arm Mesh Scenario](#three-arm-mesh-scenario)

### Overview

Ixia-c is distributed / deployed as a multi-container application consisting of following services:

* **controller** - Serves API request from clients and manages workflow across one or more traffic engines.
* **traffic-engine** - Generates, captures and processes traffic from one or more network interfaces (on linux-based OS).
* **app-usage-reporter** - (Optional) Collects usage report from controller and uploads it to Keysight Cloud, with minimal impact on host resources.

All these services are available as docker image on [ixiacom repository](https://hub.docker.com/u/ixiacom). Please check [Ixia-c Releases](releases.md) to use specific versions of these images.

Once the services are deployed, [snappi-tests](https://github.com/open-traffic-generator/snappi-tests/tree/9f8151c), a collection of [snappi](https://pypi.org/project/snappi/) test scripts and configurations, can be setup to run against Ixia-c.

### Bootstrap

Ixia-c services can either all be deployed on same host or each on separate hosts (as long as they're mutually reachable over network). There's no boot-time dependency between them, which allows for **horizantal scalibility** without interrupting existing services.

Following outlines how connectivity is established between the services:

* **controller & traffic-engine** - When client pushes a traffic configuration to controller containing `location` of traffic engine.
* **controller & app-usage-reporter** - Controller periodically tries to establish connectivity with app-usage-reporter on a `location` which can be overridden using controller's deployment parameters.

The **location** (aka network address) of traffic-engine and app-usage-reporter must be reachable from controller, even if they're not reachable from client scripts.

Deploying these services manually (along with required parameters) may not be desired in some scenarios and hence, for convenience [deployments](../deployments) directory consists of `docker-compose` files pertaining to some commonly used scenarios, requiring only a single command for setup all required services.

>All the scenarios mentioned in upcoming sections describe both manual and automated (requiring docker-compose) steps.

### Deployment Parameters

#### Controller

  | Controller Parameters       | Optional  | Default                 | Description                                                     |
  |-----------------------------|-----------|-------------------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------|
  | --debug                     |   Yes     | false                   | Enables high volume logs with debug info for better diagnostics.|
  | --disable-app-usage-reporter|   Yes     | false                   | Disables sending usage data to app-usage-reporter.              |
  | --http-port                 |   Yes     | 443                     | TCP port for HTTP server.                                       |
  | --log-out                   |   Yes     | false                   | Enables streaming log output to stdout.                         |
  | --aur-host                  |   Yes     | https://localhost:5600  | Overrides location of app-usage-reporter.                       |
  | --accept-eula               |   No      | NA                      | Indicates that user has accepted EULA, otherwise controller won't boot up |

  Docker Parameters:
  * `--net=host` - This is recommended to allowing using host's network stack in order to address traffic-engine containers using `localhost` instead of `container-ip`, when deployed on same host.
  * `-d` - This starts container in background.

  Example:

  ```bash
  docker run --net=host -d ixiacom/ixia-c-controller --accept-eula --debug --http-port 5050
  ```

#### Traffic Engine

  | Environment Variables       | Optional  | Default                 | Description                                                     |
  |-----------------------------|-----------|-------------------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------|
  | ARG_IFACE_LIST              |   No      | NA                      | Name of the network interface to bind to. It must be visible to traffic-engine's network namespace. e.g. `virtual@af_packet,eth1` where `eth1` is interface name while `virtual@af_packet` indicates that the interface is managed by host kernel's network stack.|
  | OPT_LISTEN_PORT             |   Yes     | "5555"                  | TCP port on which controller can establish connection with traffic-engine.|
  | OPT_NO_HUGEPAGES            |   Yes     | "No"                    | Setting this to `Yes` disables hugepages in OS. The hugepages needs to be disabled when using network interfaces managed by host kernel's stack.|

  Docker Parameters:
  * `--net=host` - This is needed if traffic-engine needs to bind to a network interface that is visible in host network stack but not inside docker's network.
  * `--privileged` - This is needed because traffic-engine needs to exercise capabilities that require elevated privileges.
  * `--cpuset-cpus` - The traffic-engine usually requires 1 shared CPU core for management activities and 2 exclusive CPU cores, each for transmit engine and receive engine. The shared CPU core can be shared across multiple traffic-engines. e.g. `--cpuset-cpus="0,1,2"` indicates that cpu0 is shared, cpu1 is used for transmit and cpu2 is used for receive. If CPU cores are not specified, arbitrary CPU cores will be chosen.
    > If enough CPU cores are not provided, available CPU cores may be shared among management, transmit and receive engines, occasionally resulting in lower performance.
  * `-d` - This starts container in background.

  Example:

  ```bash
  docker run --net=host --privileged -d         \
    -e OPT_LISTEN_PORT="5555"                   \
    -e ARG_IFACE_LIST="virtual@af_packet,eth1"  \
    -e OPT_NO_HUGEPAGES="Yes"                   \
    --cpuset-cpus="0,1,2"                       \
    ixiacom/ixia-c-traffic-engine
  ```

### Diagnostics

Check and download controller logs:

```sh
docker exec <container-id> cat logs/controller.log
# follow logs
docker exec <container-id> tail -f logs/controller.log
# check stdout output
docker logs <container-id>
# download logs
docker cp <container-id>:$(docker exec <container-id> readlink -f logs/controller.log) ./
```

Check and download traffic-engine logs:

```sh
docker exec <container-id> cat /var/log/usstream/usstream.log
# follow logs
docker exec <container-id> tail -f /var/log/usstream/usstream.log
# check stdout output
docker logs <container-id>
# download logs
docker cp <container-id>:/var/log/usstream/usstream.log ./
```

### Test Suite

### One-arm Scenario

> TODO: diagram

* Automated

  ```bash
  docker-compose -f deployments/raw-one-arm.yml up -d
  # optionally stop and remove services deployed
  docker-compose -f deployments/raw-one-arm.yml down
  ```

* Manual

  ```bash
  # start controller and app usage reporter
  docker run --net=host -d ixiacom/ixia-c-controller --accept-eula
  docker run --net=host -d ixiacom/ixia-c-app-usage-reporter

  # start traffic engine on network interface eth1, TCP port 5555 and cpu cores 0, 1, 2
  docker run --net=host --privileged -d         \
    -e OPT_LISTEN_PORT="5555"                   \
    -e ARG_IFACE_LIST="virtual@af_packet,eth1"  \
    -e OPT_NO_HUGEPAGES="Yes"                   \
    --cpuset-cpus="0,1,2"                       \
    ixiacom/ixia-c-traffic-engine
  ```

### Two-arm Scenario

> TODO: diagram

* Automated

  ```bash
  docker-compose -f deployments/raw-two-arm.yml up -d
  # optionally stop and remove services deployed
  docker-compose -f deployments/raw-two-arm.yml down
  ```

* Manual

  ```bash
  # start controller and app usage reporter
  docker run --net=host -d ixiacom/ixia-c-controller --accept-eula
  docker run --net=host -d ixiacom/ixia-c-app-usage-reporter

  # start traffic engine on network interface eth1, TCP port 5555 and cpu cores 0, 1, 2
  docker run --net=host --privileged -d         \
    -e OPT_LISTEN_PORT="5555"                   \
    -e ARG_IFACE_LIST="virtual@af_packet,eth1"  \
    -e OPT_NO_HUGEPAGES="Yes"                   \
    --cpuset-cpus="0,1,2"                       \
    ixiacom/ixia-c-traffic-engine

  # start traffic engine on network interface eth2, TCP port 5556 and cpu cores 0, 3, 4
  docker run --net=host --privileged -d         \
    -e OPT_LISTEN_PORT="5556"                   \
    -e ARG_IFACE_LIST="virtual@af_packet,eth2"  \
    -e OPT_NO_HUGEPAGES="Yes"                   \
    --cpuset-cpus="0,3,4"                       \
    ixiacom/ixia-c-traffic-engine
  ```

### Three-arm Mesh Scenario

This scenario binds traffic engine to management network interface belonging to the container which in turn is part of docker0 network.

> TODO: diagram

* Automated

  ```bash
  docker-compose -f deployments/raw-three-arm-mesh.yml up -d
  # optionally stop and remove services deployed
  docker-compose -f deployments/raw-three-arm-mesh.yml down
  ```

* Manual

  ```bash
  # start controller and app usage reporter
  docker run --net=host -d ixiacom/ixia-c-controller --accept-eula
  docker run --net=host -d ixiacom/ixia-c-app-usage-reporter

  # start traffic engine on network interface eth0, TCP port 5555 and cpu cores 0, 1, 2
  docker run --privileged -d                    \
    -e OPT_LISTEN_PORT="5555"                   \
    -e ARG_IFACE_LIST="virtual@af_packet,eth0"  \
    -e OPT_NO_HUGEPAGES="Yes"                   \
    -p 5555:5555                                \
    --cpuset-cpus="0,1,2"                       \
    ixiacom/ixia-c-traffic-engine

  # start traffic engine on network interface eth0, TCP port 5556 and cpu cores 0, 3, 4
  docker run --privileged -d                    \
    -e OPT_LISTEN_PORT="5555"                   \
    -e ARG_IFACE_LIST="virtual@af_packet,eth0"  \
    -e OPT_NO_HUGEPAGES="Yes"                   \
    -p 5556:5555                                \
    --cpuset-cpus="0,3,4"                       \
    ixiacom/ixia-c-traffic-engine

  # start traffic engine on network interface eth0, TCP port 5557 and cpu cores 0, 5, 6
  docker run --privileged -d                    \
    -e OPT_LISTEN_PORT="5555"                   \
    -e ARG_IFACE_LIST="virtual@af_packet,eth0"  \
    -e OPT_NO_HUGEPAGES="Yes"                   \
    -p 5557:5555                                \
    --cpuset-cpus="0,5,6"                       \
    ixiacom/ixia-c-traffic-engine
  ```

### TODO: Multi-port per TE container

## Tests

### Clone Tests

  ```sh
    # Git clone sanppi-tests repo from github
    # This repository consists of end-to-end test scripts written in [snappi](https://github.com/open-traffic-generator/snappi).
    git clone https://github.com/open-traffic-generator/snappi-tests.git
    cd snappi-tests
  ```

### Setup Tests

  Please make sure that the client setup meets [Python Prerequisites](#test-prerequisites).

* **Install `snappi`.**

    ```sh
      python -m pip install --upgrade "snappi"
    ```

* **Install test dependencies**

    ```sh
      python -m pip install --upgrade -r requirements.txt
    ```

* **Ensure a `sample test` script executes successfully. Please see [test details](#test-details) for more info.**

    ```sh
      # provide intended API Server and port addresses
      vi tests/settings.json
      # run a test
      python -m pytest tests/raw/test_tcp_unidir_flows.py
    ```

## Test Details

The test scripts are based on `snappi client SDK` (auto-generated from [Open Traffic Generator Data Model](https://github.com/open-traffic-generator/models)) and have been written using `pytest`.  

Open Traffic Generator Data Model can be accessed from any browser by hitting this url (https://<controller-host-ip>/docs/) and start scripting.

The test directory structure is as follows:

* `snappi-tests/tests/settings.json` - global test configuration, includes `controller` host, `traffic-engine` host and `speed` settings.
* `snappi-tests/configs/` - contains pre-defined traffic configurations in JSON, which can be loaded by test scripts.
* `snappi-tests/tests` - contains end-to-end test scripts covering most common use-cases.
* `snappi-tests/tests/utils/` - contains most commonly needed helpers, used throughout test scripts.
* `snappi-tests/tests/env/bin/python` - python executable (inside virtual environment) to be used for test execution.

Most test scripts follow the format of following sample scripts:

* `snappi-tests/tests/raw/test_tcp_unidir_flows.py` - for unidirectional flow use case.
* `snappi-tests/tests/raw/test_tcp_bidir_flows.py` - for using pre-defined JSON traffic config & bidirectional flow use case.
* `snappi-tests/tests/raw/test_basic_flow_stats.py` - for basic flow statistics validation use case.
* `<test to validate capture>` - for validating capture. TODO
* `<test to cover multiple protocol fields for different variation like fixed, list, counter>` - some example from gtpv2 [ethernet - ipv4 - udp - gtpv2 - ipv6] TODO
* `<test script for one arm testing>` - for one arm scenario TODO

To execute batch tests marked as `sanity`:

```sh
tests/env/bin/python -m pytest tests/py -m "sanity"
```

**NOTE on tests/settings.json**:

* When `controller` and `traffic-engine`s are located on separate systems (remote)

  ```json
  {
   "controller": "https://<controller-ip>",
    "ports": [
        "<traffic-engine-ip>:5555",
        "<traffic-engine-ip>:5556"
    ]
  }
  ```

* When `controller` and `traffic-engine`s are located on same system (local - raw sockets)

  ```json
  {
   "controller": "https://localhost",
    "ports": [
        "localhost:5555",
        "localhost:5556"
    ]
  }
  ```

Commit message:

upgraded snappi-tests to include fixed scripts and added details for docker-compose and .env file

docs/deployments.md, after:

# Deployment Guide

- [Table of Contents](readme.md)
  - Deployment Guide
    * [Overview](#overview)
    * [Bootstrap](#bootstrap)
    * [Deployment Parameters](#deployment-parameters)
    * [Diagnostics](#diagnostics)
    * [Test Suite](#test-suite)
    * [One-arm Scenario](#one-arm-scenario)
    * [Two-arm Scenario](#two-arm-scenario)
    * [Three-arm Mesh Scenario](#three-arm-mesh-scenario)

### Overview

Ixia-c is distributed / deployed as a multi-container application consisting of following services:

* **controller** - Serves API request from clients and manages workflow across one or more traffic engines.
* **traffic-engine** - Generates, captures and processes traffic from one or more network interfaces (on linux-based OS).
* **app-usage-reporter** - (Optional) Collects anonymous usage report from controller and uploads it to Keysight Cloud, with minimal impact on host resources.

All these services are available as docker image on [ixiacom repository](https://hub.docker.com/u/ixiacom). Please check [Ixia-c Releases](releases.md) to use specific versions of these images.

Once the services are deployed, [snappi-tests](https://github.com/open-traffic-generator/snappi-tests/tree/06944b0), a collection of [snappi](https://pypi.org/project/snappi/) test scripts and configurations, can be setup to run against Ixia-c.

### Bootstrap

Ixia-c services can either all be deployed on same host or each on separate hosts (as long as they're mutually reachable over network). There's no boot-time dependency between them, which allows for **horizantal scalibility** without interrupting existing services.

Following outlines how connectivity is established between the services:

* **controller & traffic-engine** - When client pushes a traffic configuration to controller containing `location` of traffic engine.
* **controller & app-usage-reporter** - Controller periodically tries to establish connectivity with app-usage-reporter on a `location` which can be overridden using controller's deployment parameters.

> The **location** (aka network address) of traffic-engine and app-usage-reporter must be reachable from controller, even if they're not reachable from client scripts.

#### Using docker-compose

Deploying multiple services manually (along with required parameters) may not be desired in some scenarios and hence, for convenience [deployments](../deployments) directory consists of `docker-compose` files, where:
* `*.yml` files describe services for a given scenario and deployment parameters required to start them.
* `.env` file holds default parameters to be used across all `*.yml` files, like name of interface, version of docker images, etc.

If a concerned `.yml` file does not include certain variables from `.env`, those can then safely be ignored.  
Here's how the usual workflow looks like when using `docker-compose`.

```sh
# change default parameters if needed; e.g. interface name, image version, etc.
vi deployments/.env
# deploy and start services
docker-compose -f deployments/<scenario>.yml up -d
# stop and remove services deployed
docker-compose -f deployments/<scenario>.yml down
```

On most systems, `docker-compose` needs to be installed separately even when docker is already installed. Please check [docker prerequisites](prerequisites.md#docker) for more details.

>All the scenarios mentioned in upcoming sections describe both manual and automated (requiring docker-compose) steps.

### Deployment Parameters

#### Controller

  | Controller Parameters       | Optional  | Default                 | Description                                                     |
  |-----------------------------|-----------|-------------------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------|
  | --debug                     |   Yes     | false                   | Enables high volume logs with debug info for better diagnostics.|
  | --disable-app-usage-reporter|   Yes     | false                   | Disables sending usage data to app-usage-reporter.              |
  | --http-port                 |   Yes     | 443                     | TCP port for HTTP server.                                       |
  | --log-out                   |   Yes     | false                   | Enables streaming log output to stdout.                         |
  | --aur-host                  |   Yes     | https://localhost:5600  | Overrides location of app-usage-reporter.                       |
  | --accept-eula               |   No      | NA                      | Indicates that user has accepted EULA, otherwise controller won't boot up |

  Docker Parameters:
  * `--net=host` - This is recommended to allowing using host's network stack in order to address traffic-engine containers using `localhost` instead of `container-ip`, when deployed on same host.
  * `-d` - This starts container in background.

  Example:

  ```bash
  docker run --net=host -d ixiacom/ixia-c-controller --accept-eula --debug --http-port 5050
  ```

#### Traffic Engine

  | Environment Variables       | Optional  | Default                 | Description                                                     |
  |-----------------------------|-----------|-------------------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------|
  | ARG_IFACE_LIST              |   No      | NA                      | Name of the network interface to bind to. It must be visible to traffic-engine's network namespace. e.g. `virtual@af_packet,eth1` where `eth1` is interface name while `virtual@af_packet` indicates that the interface is managed by host kernel's network stack.|
  | OPT_LISTEN_PORT             |   Yes     | "5555"                  | TCP port on which controller can establish connection with traffic-engine.|
  | OPT_NO_HUGEPAGES            |   Yes     | "No"                    | Setting this to `Yes` disables hugepages in OS. The hugepages needs to be disabled when using network interfaces managed by host kernel's stack.|

  Docker Parameters:
  * `--net=host` - This is needed if traffic-engine needs to bind to a network interface that is visible in host network stack but not inside docker's network.
  * `--privileged` - This is needed because traffic-engine needs to exercise capabilities that require elevated privileges.
  * `--cpuset-cpus` - The traffic-engine usually requires 1 shared CPU core for management activities and 2 exclusive CPU cores, each for transmit engine and receive engine. The shared CPU core can be shared across multiple traffic-engines. e.g. `--cpuset-cpus="0,1,2"` indicates that cpu0 is shared, cpu1 is used for transmit and cpu2 is used for receive. If CPU cores are not specified, arbitrary CPU cores will be chosen.
    > If enough CPU cores are not provided, available CPU cores may be shared among management, transmit and receive engines, occasionally resulting in lower performance.
  * `-d` - This starts container in background.

  Example:

  ```bash
  docker run --net=host --privileged -d         \
    -e OPT_LISTEN_PORT="5555"                   \
    -e ARG_IFACE_LIST="virtual@af_packet,eth1"  \
    -e OPT_NO_HUGEPAGES="Yes"                   \
    --cpuset-cpus="0,1,2"                       \
    ixiacom/ixia-c-traffic-engine
  ```

### Diagnostics

Check and download controller logs:

```sh
docker exec <container-id> cat logs/controller.log
# follow logs
docker exec <container-id> tail -f logs/controller.log
# check stdout output
docker logs <container-id>
# download logs
docker cp <container-id>:$(docker exec <container-id> readlink -f logs/controller.log) ./
```

Check and download traffic-engine logs:

```sh
docker exec <container-id> cat /var/log/usstream/usstream.log
# follow logs
docker exec <container-id> tail -f /var/log/usstream/usstream.log
# check stdout output
docker logs <container-id>
# download logs
docker cp <container-id>:/var/log/usstream/usstream.log ./
```

### Test Suite

### One-arm Scenario

> TODO: diagram

* Automated

  ```bash
  docker-compose -f deployments/raw-one-arm.yml up -d
  # optionally stop and remove services deployed
  docker-compose -f deployments/raw-one-arm.yml down
  ```

* Manual

  ```bash
  # start controller and app usage reporter
  docker run --net=host -d ixiacom/ixia-c-controller --accept-eula
  docker run --net=host -d ixiacom/ixia-c-app-usage-reporter

  # start traffic engine on network interface eth1, TCP port 5555 and cpu cores 0, 1, 2
  docker run --net=host --privileged -d         \
    -e OPT_LISTEN_PORT="5555"                   \
    -e ARG_IFACE_LIST="virtual@af_packet,eth1"  \
    -e OPT_NO_HUGEPAGES="Yes"                   \
    --cpuset-cpus="0,1,2"                       \
    ixiacom/ixia-c-traffic-engine
  ```

### Two-arm Scenario

> TODO: diagram

* Automated

  ```bash
  docker-compose -f deployments/raw-two-arm.yml up -d
  # optionally stop and remove services deployed
  docker-compose -f deployments/raw-two-arm.yml down
  ```

* Manual

  ```bash
  # start controller and app usage reporter
  docker run --net=host -d ixiacom/ixia-c-controller --accept-eula
  docker run --net=host -d ixiacom/ixia-c-app-usage-reporter

  # start traffic engine on network interface eth1, TCP port 5555 and cpu cores 0, 1, 2
  docker run --net=host --privileged -d         \
    -e OPT_LISTEN_PORT="5555"                   \
    -e ARG_IFACE_LIST="virtual@af_packet,eth1"  \
    -e OPT_NO_HUGEPAGES="Yes"                   \
    --cpuset-cpus="0,1,2"                       \
    ixiacom/ixia-c-traffic-engine

  # start traffic engine on network interface eth2, TCP port 5556 and cpu cores 0, 3, 4
  docker run --net=host --privileged -d         \
    -e OPT_LISTEN_PORT="5556"                   \
    -e ARG_IFACE_LIST="virtual@af_packet,eth2"  \
    -e OPT_NO_HUGEPAGES="Yes"                   \
    --cpuset-cpus="0,3,4"                       \
    ixiacom/ixia-c-traffic-engine
  ```

### Three-arm Mesh Scenario

This scenario binds traffic engine to management network interface belonging to the container which in turn is part of docker0 network.

> TODO: diagram

* Automated

  ```bash
  docker-compose -f deployments/raw-three-arm-mesh.yml up -d
  # optionally stop and remove services deployed
  docker-compose -f deployments/raw-three-arm-mesh.yml down
  ```

* Manual

  ```bash
  # start controller and app usage reporter
  docker run --net=host -d ixiacom/ixia-c-controller --accept-eula
  docker run --net=host -d ixiacom/ixia-c-app-usage-reporter

  # start traffic engine on network interface eth0, TCP port 5555 and cpu cores 0, 1, 2
  docker run --privileged -d                    \
    -e OPT_LISTEN_PORT="5555"                   \
    -e ARG_IFACE_LIST="virtual@af_packet,eth0"  \
    -e OPT_NO_HUGEPAGES="Yes"                   \
    -p 5555:5555                                \
    --cpuset-cpus="0,1,2"                       \
    ixiacom/ixia-c-traffic-engine

  # start traffic engine on network interface eth0, TCP port 5556 and cpu cores 0, 3, 4
  docker run --privileged -d                    \
    -e OPT_LISTEN_PORT="5555"                   \
    -e ARG_IFACE_LIST="virtual@af_packet,eth0"  \
    -e OPT_NO_HUGEPAGES="Yes"                   \
    -p 5556:5555                                \
    --cpuset-cpus="0,3,4"                       \
    ixiacom/ixia-c-traffic-engine

  # start traffic engine on network interface eth0, TCP port 5557 and cpu cores 0, 5, 6
  docker run --privileged -d                    \
    -e OPT_LISTEN_PORT="5555"                   \
    -e ARG_IFACE_LIST="virtual@af_packet,eth0"  \
    -e OPT_NO_HUGEPAGES="Yes"                   \
    -p 5557:5555                                \
    --cpuset-cpus="0,5,6"                       \
    ixiacom/ixia-c-traffic-engine
  ```

### TODO: Multi-port per TE container

## Tests

### Clone Tests

  ```sh
    # Git clone sanppi-tests repo from github
    # This repository consists of end-to-end test scripts written in [snappi](https://github.com/open-traffic-generator/snappi).
    git clone https://github.com/open-traffic-generator/snappi-tests.git
    cd snappi-tests
  ```

### Setup Tests

  Please make sure that the client setup meets [Python Prerequisites](#test-prerequisites).

* **Install `snappi`.**

    ```sh
      python -m pip install --upgrade "snappi"
    ```

* **Install test dependencies**

    ```sh
      python -m pip install --upgrade -r requirements.txt
    ```

* **Ensure a `sample test` script executes successfully. Please see [test details](#test-details) for more info.**

    ```sh
      # provide intended API Server and port addresses
      vi tests/settings.json
      # run a test
      python -m pytest tests/raw/test_tcp_unidir_flows.py
    ```

## Test Details

The test scripts are based on `snappi client SDK` (auto-generated from [Open Traffic Generator Data Model](https://github.com/open-traffic-generator/models)) and have been written using `pytest`.  

Open Traffic Generator Data Model can be accessed from any browser by hitting this url (https://<controller-host-ip>/docs/) and start scripting.

The test directory structure is as follows:

* `snappi-tests/tests/settings.json` - global test configuration, includes `controller` host, `traffic-engine` host and `speed` settings.
* `snappi-tests/configs/` - contains pre-defined traffic configurations in JSON, which can be loaded by test scripts.
* `snappi-tests/tests` - contains end-to-end test scripts covering most common use-cases.
* `snappi-tests/tests/utils/` - contains most commonly needed helpers, used throughout test scripts.
* `snappi-tests/tests/env/bin/python` - python executable (inside virtual environment) to be used for test execution.

Most test scripts follow the format of following sample scripts:

* `snappi-tests/tests/raw/test_tcp_unidir_flows.py` - for unidirectional flow use case.
* `snappi-tests/tests/raw/test_tcp_bidir_flows.py` - for using pre-defined JSON traffic config & bidirectional flow use case.
* `snappi-tests/tests/raw/test_basic_flow_stats.py` - for basic flow statistics validation use case.
* `<test to validate capture>` - for validating capture. TODO
* `<test to cover multiple protocol fields for different variation like fixed, list, counter>` - some example from gtpv2 [ethernet - ipv4 - udp - gtpv2 - ipv6] TODO
* `<test script for one arm testing>` - for one arm scenario TODO

To execute batch tests marked as `sanity`:

```sh
tests/env/bin/python -m pytest tests/py -m "sanity"
```

**NOTE on tests/settings.json**:

* When `controller` and `traffic-engine`s are located on separate systems (remote)

  ```json
  {
   "controller": "https://<controller-ip>",
    "ports": [
        "<traffic-engine-ip>:5555",
        "<traffic-engine-ip>:5556"
    ]
  }
  ```

* When `controller` and `traffic-engine`s are located on same system (local - raw sockets)

  ```json
  {
   "controller": "https://localhost",
    "ports": [
        "localhost:5555",
        "localhost:5556"
    ]
  }
  ```
